.\" Copyright (c) 2011-*, (mt) MediaTemple <mediatemple.net>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"  - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CON-
.\" SEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
.\" GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH "INOTISPYCTL" "8" "21 September 2011" "Inotispy 1\&.1\&.33" "Inotispyctl"
.SH NAME
inotispyctl \- command line tool for poking the inotispy daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inotispyctl\fR [\fIoption\fR] \fBcommand\fR [\fIcommand args\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a simple command line tool for using the \fBinotispy(8)\fR daemon.
It can be used as an administrative tool or to help getting started with
Inotispy.
.SH OPTIONS
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Print the help menu.
.RE
.P
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uri\fR
.RS 4
Use a zmq_uri othar than the default. (\fBtcp://127.0.0.1:5559\fR)
.RE
.P
.RE
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.RS 4
Print the version and exit.
.RE
.SH COMMANDS
.SS ping
Ping the Inotispy daemon to see if it's running
.SS status
Print some basic status about the state of the Inotispy daemon.
.SS list_roots
List each currently watched root.
.SS list_queues
List each currently watched root and the number of events in each queue.
.SS watch\fR \fIdir\fR
Watch a new root at directory \fIdir\fR.
.SS unwatch\fR \fIdir\fR
Unwatch the root at directory \fIdir\fR.
.SS queue_size\fR \fIdir\fR
Get the queue size for a watched root.
.SS flush_queue\fR \fIdir\fR
Flush the queue for a watched root.
.SS get_events\fR \fIdir\fR \fIcount\fR
Get events for a specific root. The \fIcount\fR value is an integer value
>= to 0 (zero). A count of \fB0\fR (zero) will retrieve \fBall\fR of the events
currently in that root's queue.
.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
The following is an example terminal session using \fBinotispyctl\fR:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
$  inotispyctl ping
ping... pong! Inotispy is up and running.

$ inotispyctl \fBlist_roots\fR 
There are no currently watched roots

$ inotispyctl \fBwatch\fR /root/site
Root /root/site is now being watched

$ inotispyctl \fBwatch\fR /root/site
ERROR: 9: This root is currently being watched under inotify

$ inotispyctl \fBlist_roots\fR
/root/site

$ inotispyctl \fBlist_queues\fR
/root/site  0

$ touch /root/site/TEST1
$ mkdir /root/site/dir1

$ inotispyctl \fBlist_queues\fR
/root/site  4

$ # A count of 0 gets all the events in the queue.
$ inotispyctl \fBget_events\fR /root/site 0 
/root/site/TEST1  256
/root/site/TEST1  4
/root/site/TEST1  8
/root/site/dir1  1073742080

$ inotispyctl \fBlist_queues\fR
/root/site  0

$ inotispyctl \fBunwatch\fR /root/site
Root /root/site is no longer being watched

$ inotispyctl \fBlist_queues\fR
There are no currently watched roots
.fi
.in
.SH BUGS
See the \fBinotispy(8)\fR man page for a list of known Inotispy bugs.
.\" .SH RESOURCES
.\" Main web site:
.\" .BR http://www.inotispy.org
.PP
Report bugs directly to anyone in the \fBAUTHORS\fR section below.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inotispy (8),
.BR zmq (7),
.BR inotify (7)
.SH AUTHORS
James Conerly <james@jamesconerly.com>
